Add Contributing workloads page (#6430)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/user-guide/contributing-workloads.md

---
layout: default
title: Contributing custom workloads
nav_order: 11
parent: User guide
---

> # Contributing custom workloads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Sharing custom workloads
```

Author: @IanHoang: Are you okay with this name change of do you prefer "contributing"?

> You can share a custom workload with other OpenSearch users by uploading it to the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/) in GitHub. To share a custom workload, follow these guidelines.

Author: ```suggestion
You can share a custom workload with other OpenSearch users by uploading it to the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/) in GitHub. 

Make sure that any data included in the workload's dataset does not contain any proprietary data or Personal Identifiable Information (PII). 

To share a custom workload, follow these steps.
```

> After [creating a custom workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/creating-custom-workloads/), you can contribute your workload for other OpenSearch Benchmark users to use. If you plan on contributing a workload, use the following guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [creating a custom workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/creating-custom-workloads/), you can share the workload with other OpenSearch Benchmark users. If you plan on sharing a workload, follow these guidelines.
```

> ## README and license

Author: ```suggestion
## Create a README.md
```

> ## README and license

Reviewer: If these are supposed to be steps in a process, can you rename to "Create a README file", then "Test the workload", then "Raise a pull request". I'm not sure where the Structure section comes into play, though... Should that be at the beginning of the topic?

> Each workload must include a detailed `README.MD` file, which should include the following:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide a detailed `README.MD` file that includes the following:  
```

> - The purpose of the workload and which users should use the workload. When creating a description, consider the specific use case of the workload and how the workload's use case is different from other workloads included in the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/).

Author: ```suggestion
- The purpose of the workload. When creating a description for the workload, consider the specific use case of the workload and how the workload's use case is different from other workloads included in the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/).
```

> - The purpose of the workload and which users should use the workload. When creating a description, consider the specific use case of the workload and how the workload's use case is different from other workloads included in the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/).

Reviewer: What do you mean by 'which users'? Are you targeting a specific type of user? Isn't it more about the use case than the user?

> - Make sure that any data included in the workload's dataset does not contain any proprietary data or Personal Identifiable Information (PII). 

Author: ```suggestion
- Make sure that any data included in the workload's dataset does not contain any proprietary data or Personal Identifiable Information (PII). 
```

> - Make sure that any data included in the workload's dataset does not contain any proprietary data or Personal Identifiable Information (PII). 

Reviewer: How is this relevant for the readme file?

Author: Because of the example document that must be included in the README.

Reviewer: Then maybe you can first list the output sample bullet and then add this as a note under it? Otherwise, it feels like a requirement on the content in the workload and not on the README itself. Or make it a note after the first paragraph that discusses sharing the workload?

- An example document from the dataset that helps users understand the data's structure.
- The workload parameters that can be used to customize the workloads.
- A list of default test procedures included in the workload and other test procedures that the workload can run.
- An output sample that the workload produces after a test is run.
- A copy of the open source license that gives the user and OpenSearch Benchmark permission to use the dataset.

For an example workload README, go to the `http_logs` [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/http_logs/README.md).

> ## Structure

Author: ```suggestion
## Verify the workload's structure
```

The workload must include the following files: 

- `workload.json`
- `index.json`
- `files.txt`
- `test_procedures/default.json`
- `operations/default.json` 

Both `default.json` file names can be customized to have a descriptive name. The workload can include an optional `workload.py` file to add more dynamic functionality. For more information about a file's contents, go to [Anatomy of a workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/user-guide/understanding-workloads/anatomy-of-a-workload/).

## Testing the workload

All workloads contributed to OpenSearch Benchmark must fulfil the following testing requirements: 

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce examples must run on OpenSearch clusters.

Reviewer: This is a bit awkward. What is the requirement exactly?

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce examples must run on OpenSearch clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
- All tests run to explore the workload and produce example from the work must target an OpenSearch cluster.
```

> - The workload must pass integration tests in order to be included in the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). Follow these steps to ensure the workload passes the integration tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The workload passes all integration tests. Follow these steps to ensure the workload passes the integration tests:
```

   1. Add the workload to your forked copy of the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/).
   2. In the forked repository, update the `benchmark-os-it.ini` and `benchmark-in-memory.ini` files in the `/osbenchmark/it/resources` directory to point to the forked workloads repository containing your workload.
   3. After you've modified the `.ini` files, commit your changes to a branch for testing.
   4. Run your integration tests by using GitHub Actions and verify the tests have run as expected.

## Raise a pull request

> After completing the [testing the workload](#testing-the-workload) step, create a pull request (PR) from your fork to the `opensearch-project` [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). Add a sample output and summary result to the PR description. The OpenSearch Benchmark maintainers will review the PR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After testing the workload, create a pull request (PR) from your fork to the `opensearch-project` [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). Add a sample output and summary result to the PR description. The OpenSearch Benchmark maintainers will review the PR.
```

---
layout: default
title: Contributing custom workloads
nav_order: 11
parent: User guide
---

# Contributing custom workloads

> After [Creating a custom workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/creating-custom-workloads/) you can contribute your workload for other OpenSearch Benchmark users to use. If you plan on configuring a workload, use the following guidelines.

Reviewer 2: - "Creating a custom workload" --> "creating a custom workload" (uppercased C needs to be lowercased)
- "configuring a workload" --> "contributing a workload"

> After [Creating a custom workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/creating-custom-workloads/) you can contribute your workload for other OpenSearch Benchmark users to use. If you plan on configuring a workload, use the following guidelines.

Author: ```suggestion
After [creating a custom workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/creating-custom-workloads/) you can contribute your workload for other OpenSearch Benchmark users to use. If you plan on contibuting a workload, use the following guidelines.
```

> After [creating a custom workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/creating-custom-workloads/) you can contribute your workload for other OpenSearch Benchmark users to use. If you plan on contibuting a workload, use the following guidelines.

Author: ```suggestion
After [creating a custom workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/creating-custom-workloads/) you can contribute your workload for other OpenSearch Benchmark users to use. If you plan on contributing a workload, use the following guidelines.
```

## README and license

Each workload must include a detailed `README.MD` file, which should include the following:  

> - The purpose of the workload and what users should use the workload. When creating a description, think about what specific use case your workload address that other workloads included in OpenSearch Benchmark do not.

Reviewer 2: - "and what users" --> "and how users"
- "what specific use case your workload address" --> "what specific use case your workload addresses" OR "what use cases your workload address" (the latter is probably better)

> - The purpose of the workload and what users should use the workload. When creating a description, think about what specific use case your workload address that other workloads included in OpenSearch Benchmark do not.

Reviewer 3: A description of the workload and the domain it is targeted to.  When writing the description, think about the  specific use cases your workload addresses, that may not be covered by the other included workloads.

> - An overview of the data set use. Make sure that any data included in the data set does not contain any properietary data or PII. 

Reviewer 2: - "the data set use" --> "the data set used" 
- "PII" or "Personal Identifiable Information (PII)" (we should spell it out and then abbreviate)

> - An overview of the data set use. Make sure that any data included in the data set does not contain any properietary data or PII. 

Author: ```suggestion
- An overview of the dataset to use. Make sure that any data included in the dataset does not contain any proprietary data or PII. 
```

> - An example document from the data that displays that data types.

Reviewer 2: "from the data that displays that data types." --> "from the data set that gives users an idea of how the data looks like"

> - An example document from the data that displays that data types.

Author: ```suggestion
- An example document from the data set that gives users an idea of how the data looks like.
```

> - The pearamters supported by the workload.

Reviewer 2: "pearamters" --> "parameters"

> - The pearamters supported by the workload.

Author: ```suggestion
- The parameters supported by the workload.
```

> - An example document from the data set that gives users an idea of how the data looks like.

Reviewer 3: Make sure that all data included in the associated data corpus may be shared with the open-source community, and that it does not contain any proprietary data or Personal Identifiable Information (PII). 

- The document schema and a sample document from the data set that gives users an idea of what the data looks like.

> - An example document from the data set that gives users an idea of how the data looks like.

Author: ```suggestion
- A sample document from the dataset that gives users an idea of what the data looks like. 
```

> - The parameters supported by the workload.

Reviewer 3: - A list of workload parameters that the user can specify.

> - The parameters supported by the workload.

Author: ```suggestion
- A list of workload parameters the user can specify.
```

> - A list of default test procedures included in the workload and other test procedures the workload can run.

Reviewer 3: - A list of the test procedures included and an identification of which is the default test procedure.

> - A list of default test procedures included in the workload and other test procedures the workload can run.

Author: ```suggestion
- A list of test procedures included in the workload. The test procedures should have a least one default set, usually identified in a `default.json` file, as well as option test procedures.
```

- A sample of the output the workload produces after a test is run.

> - A copy of the license that gives the user and OpenSearch Benchmark permission to use the dataset.

Reviewer 3: - A copy of the license associated with the workload and the data corpus.  Generally, this will be the Apache 2 license.

> - A copy of the license that gives the user and OpenSearch Benchmark permission to use the dataset.

Author: ```suggestion
- A copy of the open-source license that gives the user and OpenSearch Benchmark permission to use the dataset.
```

- A list of default test procedures included in the workload and other test procedures that the workload can run.
- An output sample that the workload produces after a test is run.
- A copy of the open source license that gives the user and OpenSearch Benchmark permission to use the dataset.

> For an example workload README, go to the `http_logs` [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/http_logs/README.md).

Reviewer 4: Should "file" follow "README"?

> For an example workload README, go to the `http_logs` [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/http_logs/README.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For an example workload README file, go to the `http_logs` [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/blob/main/http_logs/README.md).
```

Make sure that your workload includes the following files. For more details on the contents of each file, see [Anatomy of a workload]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/user-guide/understanding-workloads/anatomy-of-a-workload/).

- `workload.json`
- `index.json`
- `files.txt`
- `test_procedures/default.json`
- `operations/default.json` 

Both `default.json` file names can be customized to have a descriptive name.

The workload can also include an optional `workload.py` file to add more dynamic functionality to the workload.

## Testing the workload

> All workloads contributed to OpenSearch Benchmark must fulfil the following testing requirements: 

Reviewer 3: fulfill

> All workloads contributed to OpenSearch Benchmark must fulfil the following testing requirements: 

Author: ```suggestion
All workloads contributed to OpenSearch Benchmark must fulfill the following testing requirements: 
```

> All workloads contributed to OpenSearch Benchmark must fulfil the following testing requirements: 

Reviewer 4: One L is the British spelling.

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce example are run on OpenSearch clusters to ensure that results from the workload are consistent.

Reviewer 2: "produce example" --> "produce examples"

Reviewer 2: "All tests run to explore the workload and produce example are run on OpenSearch clusters" --> "All tests that are run to explore the workload and produce examples should be run on OpenSearch clusters"

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce example are run on OpenSearch clusters to ensure that results from the workload are consistent.

Author: ```suggestion
- All tests run to explore the workload and produce examples should be run on OpenSearch clusters.
```

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce examples should be run on OpenSearch clusters.

Reviewer 3: - All tests run to explore the workload and produce examples should be targeted to OpenSearch clusters.

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce examples should be run on OpenSearch clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
- All tests run to explore the workload and produce examples should target OpenSearch clusters.
```

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce example from the work must target an OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer 4: "produce example from the work" needs some revision. What do we actually mean to say here?

> - All tests run to explore the workload and produce example from the work must target an OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
- All tests run to explore the workload and produce an example from the workload must target an OpenSearch cluster.
```

Author: @natebower: Does this work?

Reviewer 4: "All tests run to explore and produce an example from the workload"?

> - The workload passes all integration tests. Follow these steps to ensure the workload passes the integration tests:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The workload must pass all integration tests. Follow these steps to ensure that the workload passes the integration tests:
```

> - The workload passes integration tests in order to be included in [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). To make sure the workload passes integration tests, run the following steps:

Reviewer 3: the [workloads repository]
...
carry out the following steps

>    1. Add the workload to your forked copy of the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/).

Reviewer 4: Should we use the actual name of the repo (opensearch-benchmark-workloads)?

Author: Most users refer to it as the "Workloads" repository, so I think its ok to keep it the same as is.

> - The workload passes integration tests in order to be included in [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). To make sure the workload passes integration tests, run the following steps:

Author: ```suggestion
- The workload passes integration tests in order to be included in the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). To make sure the workload passes integration tests, run the following steps:
```

>    2. In the forked repository, update the `benchmark-os-it.ini` and `benchmark-in-memory.ini` files in the `/osbenchmark/it/resources` directory to point to the forked workloads repository containing your workload.

Reviewer 2: Could we edit the following:
- point 1 include "Ensure you have forked both repositories, OpenSearch Benchmark and OpenSearch Benchmark Workloads. Add the workload to your forked copy of OpenSearch Benchmark Workloads repository..."
- point 2 include "In your forked OpenSearch Benchmark repository, update ...."

This will clarify which forked repository to add the workload in and which repository the ini files can be updated in

>    3. After you've modified the `.ini` files, commit your changes to a branch for testing.

Reviewer 3: 3. After you've modified the `.ini` files, commit your changes to a branch for testing.  In addition to these two configuration files, you should include your new workload as well.  Merge your changes to the `1` and `2` branches, since OSB checks these branches out when it runs tests against OpenSearch v1 and v2 clusters as part of the integration tests.

>    3. After you've modified the `.ini` files, open a branch modifying your workload and make sure that the integration tests run as expected.

Reviewer 2: "open a branch modifying your workload and make sure that the integration tests run as expected." --> "commit your changes to a branch for testing and run integration tests via Github actions to ensure they run as expected."

   4. Run your integration tests by using GitHub Actions and verify the tests have run as expected.

> ## Raise a pull request

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Create a PR
```

> After you've completed [testing the workload](#testing-the-workload), make a PR from your fork to `opensearch-project` [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). Add a sample output and summary result to the PR description. Then, the OpenSearch Benchmark maintainers will review the PR. 

Reviewer 3: raise a PR from your fork to the `opensearch-project`

Add the sample output and summary result

After testing the workload, create a pull request (PR) from your fork to the `opensearch-project` [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). Add a sample output and summary result to the PR description. The OpenSearch Benchmark maintainers will review the PR.

> Once the PR is approved, you must share the data corpora of your dataset. The OpenSearch Benchmark team can then add the shared dataset to a shared Amazon S3 bucket. If your data corpora is stored in an Amazon S3 bucket, you can use [AWS DataSync](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/datasync/latest/userguide/create-s3-location.html) to share the data corpora. Otherwise, you must inform the maintainers of where the data corpora resides.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once the PR is approved, you must share the data corpora of your dataset. The OpenSearch Benchmark team can then add the dataset to a shared S3 bucket. If your data corpora is stored in an S3 bucket, you can use [AWS DataSync](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/datasync/latest/userguide/create-s3-location.html) to share the data corpora. Otherwise, you must inform the maintainers of where the data corpora resides.
```

> If approved, you'll be required to share the data corpora of your dataset, so the OpenSearch Benchmark team can add the dataset to a shared Amazon S3 bucket. If your corpora is stored in an S3 bucket, you can use [AWS DataSync](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/datasync/latest/userguide/create-s3-location.html) to share the data corpora. Otherwise, inform the maintainers of where the corpora currently resides.

Reviewer 3: If your corpora are currently available in an S3 bucket, you can use ...

> If approved, you'll be required to share the data corpora of your dataset, so the OpenSearch Benchmark team can add the dataset to a shared Amazon S3 bucket. If your corpora is stored in an S3 bucket, you can use [AWS DataSync](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/datasync/latest/userguide/create-s3-location.html) to share the data corpora. Otherwise, inform the maintainers of where the corpora currently resides.

Author: ```suggestion
If approved, you'll be required to share the data corpora of your dataset, so the OpenSearch Benchmark team can add the dataset to a shared Amazon S3 bucket. If your corpora is currently available in an S3 bucket, you can use [AWS DataSync](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/datasync/latest/userguide/create-s3-location.html) to share the data corpora. Otherwise, inform the maintainers of where the corpora currently resides.
```

## Testing the workload

All workloads contributed to OpenSearch Benchmark must fulfill the following testing requirements: 

- All tests run to explore and produce an example from the workload must target an OpenSearch cluster.
- The workload must pass all integration tests. Follow these steps to ensure that the workload passes the integration tests:
   1. Add the workload to your forked copy of the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). Make sure that you've forked both the `opensearch-benchmark-workloads` repository and the [OpenSeach Benchmark](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark) repository.
   3. In your forked OpenSearch Benchmark repository, update the `benchmark-os-it.ini` and `benchmark-in-memory.ini` files in the `/osbenchmark/it/resources` directory to point to the forked workloads repository containing your workload.
   4. After you've modified the `.ini` files, commit your changes to a branch for testing.
   6. Run your integration tests by using GitHub Actions and verify that the tests have run as expected.

>    7. If your integration tests run as expected, go to your forked workloads repository and  merge your workload changes branches `1` and `2`. This allows for your workload to appear in both major versions of OpenSearch Benchmark.

Author: ```suggestion
   7. If your integration tests run as expected, go to your forked workloads repository and  merge your workload changes into branches `1` and `2`. This allows for your workload to appear in both major versions of OpenSearch Benchmark.
```

>    7. If your integration tests run as expected, in the workloads repository, merge your workload changes into the `1` and `2` branch in your fork. This allows for your workload to appear in both major versions of OpenSearch Benchmark.

Author: ```suggestion
   7. If your integration tests run as expected, go to your forked workloads repository and  merge your workload changes branches `1` and `2`. This allows for your workload to appear in both major versions of OpenSearch Benchmark.
```

- All tests run to explore and produce an example from the workload must target an OpenSearch cluster.
- The workload must pass all integration tests. Follow these steps to ensure that the workload passes the integration tests:
   1. Add the workload to your forked copy of the [workloads repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/). Make sure that you've forked both the `opensearch-benchmark-workloads` repository and the [OpenSeach Benchmark](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark) repository.
   3. In your forked OpenSearch Benchmark repository, update the `benchmark-os-it.ini` and `benchmark-in-memory.ini` files in the `/osbenchmark/it/resources` directory to point to the forked workloads repository containing your workload.
   4. After you've modified the `.ini` files, commit your changes to a branch for testing.

>    5. Run your integration tests by using GitHub Actions and verify that the tests have run as expected.

Reviewer 2: It might be clearer to reword to "Run your integration tests via Github Actions by selecting the branch you committed changes to and ensuring that the tests run successfully."

   3. In your forked OpenSearch Benchmark repository, update the `benchmark-os-it.ini` and `benchmark-in-memory.ini` files in the `/osbenchmark/it/resources` directory to point to the forked workloads repository containing your workload.
   4. After you've modified the `.ini` files, commit your changes to a branch for testing.
   6. Run your integration tests by using GitHub Actions and verify that the tests have run as expected.

>    7. If your integration tests run as expected, go to your forked workloads repository and  merge your workload changes branches `1` and `2`. This allows for your workload to appear in both major versions of OpenSearch Benchmark.

Reviewer 2: "merge your workload changes into branches"
